Residents are MDs that are undergoing an apprenticeship to be licensed in a specific specialty. In radiology, this process takes 4 years. Each resident must complete a minimum number of exams in each variety of radiology. The required minimums are listed in this document.

We are looking at a sample export of 25 residents productivity for the 2019 academic year (July 2018-June 2019). We have 4 tables, Each table name includes a hyperlink to a CSV of the table data. The fields and relationships are described below.

Studies
priorities - lower is higher priority (IE 0 is stroke, 1 is emergent, 2 is stat...5 is very low priority)
exam Code - the unique code used internally to order a specific exam
procedure name - descriptive version of the Exam Code
trainee Name - name of the resident
finalized - Date Time stamp of when the radiologist finished the exam
modality_id - the key that links to the modalities table
organization_id - the key that links to the organizations table

Organizations
id - unique row identifier
organization_code - code that tells you what facility the exam was completed at

Modalities
id - unique row identifier
modality_code - code that tells you what modality (IE XRAY or MRI) was used to acquire images
exam_to_cpt
exam_code - the unique code used internally to order a specific exam
cpt - current procedure terminology, the federally issued code for the exam
rvu - relative value unit - how much value is derived from a specific cpt

Part 1 - 30 points

Generate an ERD of the tables, and review with John Burns.
Load the data into your SQL database using your preferred method.
Connect to the SQL database using Python
Part 2 - 30 points

Generate a report where the columns are the Case Log Categories, the rows are the Residents, and the total number of exams are the table values.
Generate another report where the columns are the Case Log Categories, the rows are the Residents, and the percentage of exams/required are the table values.
Generate another report where the columns are the Case Log Categories, the rows are the Residents, and the table values say 'Met' if the percentage is at or above 100, and shows the number of exams remaining to be completed otherwise.
Part 3 - 40 points

For the items below, it is up to your group to decide how best to visualize these requests. The answers for each of these must be in graph form.

Graph each Case Log Category total completed vs remaining for the entire group overall. Each Case Log Category should be represented separately on your graph.
Graph the amount of RVU's completed, stratified by those that count towards required cases and those that don't, by each resident (separately)
Graph the ratio of required/not required overall by organization_code. Identify the site that has the highest ratio. Graph the ratio of required/not required for each Case Log Category for this site